Accessing the Linux Machine using SSH
⦁	Target IP: 10.64.148.142
⦁	To load up AttackBox we use start the Terminal in the TryHackMe site and then start AttackBox.
⦁	Once we're in, we use command 'ssh tryhackme@ipaddress' and then open up a terminal and do the same. We use the target IP address.
⦁	The tryhackme login they gave us was username:tryhackme and password:tryhackme
⦁	I was confused at first because when I went to put in password it seemed as if the terminal wasn't responding but that's just to keep it hidden in case anyone was watching. Makes sense.

Intro to Flags and Switches (And Lab)
⦁	We can use the man command to read the manual pages if we wanted to which would give more info.
⦁	We can use the -a argument (short for all) to get access to more files and folders. In the lab a normal ls only presents us with 4 options but when we use ls -a 8 options then present themselves
⦁	Then we have the --help command which offers as a quick reference and then the -man argument which offers a full comprehensive guide.
⦁	-h argument is used to display the output in a human-readable way.

Filesystem Interaction (And Lab)
⦁	Commands used:
touch - create file
mkdir - create a folder
cp - copy a file
mv - move a file or folder
rm - remove a file or folder
file - determine a type of file
⦁	For the lab I created a new file called "newnote" by doing touch newnote
⦁	I then checked the file type of unknown1 and it was ASCII Text
⦁	Then I analyzed the contents of myfile by using cat myfile and the result was a flag called THM{FILESYSTEM}

Permissions 101 (And Lab)
⦁	Using ls -lh lists the permissions of all files in the director. The first 3 columns are the most important as they list "read, write, and execute"
⦁	There is a huge difference between the following 'switch user' commands.
- su user2 switches us to have user2s permissions but still keeps us in the previous user's directory
- su -l user2 switches us to have user2's permissions and automatically have their home directory as well
⦁	On our current directory when we used ls -lh it lists the 'important' file as being owned by user2
⦁	I switched the user from tryhackme to user2 using 'su user2' and then I had permissions to command 'cat important' to get the flag 'THM{SU_USER2}'

Common Directories
⦁	/etc is a commonplace location to store system files and one of the most important directories
⦁	/var. short for variable data, is another main root folder found on an install and is frequently accessed by services running on the system
- We can expect to find log files in /var/log
⦁	/tmp is similar to how RAM works in computers
⦁	/root is the home directory of the root user
