Deploying Your Linux Machine
Like before we connect to the terminal using command 'ssh tryhackme@10.67.167.85'. Different IP address this time since we're in a different room.

Terminal Text Editors
There are 2 main text editors.
Nano: this one is simple and can do all the basic things you need it to
VIM: much more advanced text editor that we will learn on later. but this will be great for leveling up our Linux capabalities
To create or edit a file using nano, we use nano filename and then it will open up a textbox where we can put in text with a list of common commands at the bottom. To close the command we use ^X.

Serving Files From Your Host - WEB
scp (short for secure copy) is used for securely copying files
the command goes in the way of SOURCE to DESTINATION
Example code: scp tryhackme@10.67.170.186:/home/tryhackme/textfile.txt textfile
In order to transfer files we have to connect to our Terminal's web server called HTTP Server.
We do this by executing command 'python3 -m http.server'
Then we have to open a new terminal in order to execute our commands there.
When we are done using this server we use ^C to close it.
Now, in that new terminal if we knew our file's web address we could use command 'wget filelink'
Interactive Lab
I made sure I was connected to instance 10.67.170.186
Then I used Python 3's "HTTPServer" module to start a web server on instance 10.67.170.186
I then opened a new terminal on the root IP and downloaded a file using command 'wget http://10.67.170.186:8000/.flag.txt'
Then I experimented around a bit and made files on the first instance using nano and then downloaded them onto the second instance using the process I just talked about.

Processes 101
We can use command 'ps' to view the running processes from our user's session
We can use ps aux to see processes run by other users and those that don't run from a session.
The 'top' command is very useful for seeing the real-time statistics about the processes running on the system and it constantly updates.
If we wanted to terminate a process, we would use command 'kill PID'
so if the PID was 1337 we would do 'kill 1337'
Here are some signals for how exactly to kill a process:
SIGTERM - kills the process but allows it do some cleanup tasks beforehand
SIGKILL - kills the process and doesn't do any cleanup
SIGSTOP - stops a process
Backgrounding & Foregrounding
backgrounding is when processes run in the background and you can't directly see them in the terminal
foregrounding is when a process runs in the foreground where you can see it like with echo commands
for example we can do 'echo "Hello!"' and the terminal will respond in the foreground with "Hello!" but if we do 'echo "Hello!" &' then it responds with [1] 3751 which is the ID of the echo process
Backgrounding is very helpful for copying files and things that take up time so that we can do other commands in the foreground
If we wanted to stop a process we could do 'Ctrl + Z' or '^Z'
If we were to launch  process where the previous ID was "300" the ID of this next process would be "301"
If we wanted to stop the service "myservice" we would use command 'systemctl stop myservice'
If we wanted to start the service "myservice" on the bootup of the system we would use command 'systemctl enable myservice'
We use command 'fg' to bring a previously backgrounded process to the foreground

Maintaining Your System: Automation
We can interact with the cron process via the use of 'crontabs' command. This process is started during bootup.
Here are the 6 specific values step-by-step
MIN - what minute to execute at
HOUR - what hour to execute at
DOM - what day of the month to execute at
MON - what month of the year to execute at
DOW - what day of the week to execute at
CMD - the actual command to be executed
If we wanted to backup "cnmatic"'s "Documents" every 12 hours we would use this command:
0 */12 * * * cp -R /home/cmnatic/Documents /var/backups/
If we don't want to provide a value for one of the fields we use an *
Crontabs can be edited by using 'crontab -e'
Important to note that crontabs can also have a special case where the 6 values aren't mentioned and these are when it says @reboot which means the process occurs every time at reboot.

Maintaining Your System: Package Management
We can add additional repositories by using the 'add-apt-repository' command
Normally, we use the 'apt' command to install software but it has a suite of tools that we can use to manage sources and also remove software.
When adding software, the integrity of what we download is guaranteed by GPG (Gnu Privacy Guard) keys.
So, if we are adding the GPG key for the developers of Sublime Text 3 this is what we would do:
Command 'wget -qO - https://download.sublimetext.com/sublimehq-pub.gpg | sudo apt-key add -' to download and use the apt-key to trust it
Now we can add Sublime Text 3's repository to our apt sources list. It is good to have a separate file for every different community/3rd party repository we add
We create a file names sublime-text.list in /etc/apt/sources.list.d
Now we use Nano or a text editor to add & save the Sublime Text 3 repository into this newly created file
Now we need to update apt to recognize this new entry by doing 'apt-update'
Now we can proceed to install the software we have trusted and added by using 'apt install sublime-text'
Removing packages is just and easy and is done by using the 'add-apt-repository --remove ppa:PPA_Name/ppa' command or by manually deleting the file that we previously added to. Once removed we can just use apt remove [software-name-here] or in this case apt remove sublime-text

Maintaining Your System: Logs
In our AttackBox server, we have navigated to /var/log and we see that apache2 is running.
I look into it and some interesting log files could be access.log and error.log. These could be great for diagnosing performance issues or an intruder's activity
In the Lab, I accessed access.log.1 and found a user with the IP 10.9.232.211 access catsanddogs.jpg on May 4th 2021 at 18:18.
