What I did:
OSI Model on TryHackMe
Packets, Frames, TCP/UDP, Ports on TryHackMe
Completed a hands-on practice on how ports are used

What I learned:
OSI Model is 7 layer process that is how a connection is established.
1. Physical - transmits raw bits through ethernet cables or wires
2. Data Link - provides transfer of data through two nodes on the same network
3. Network - handles IP addressing and routing, finds optimal path here, uses routers
4. Transport - ensures data gets delivered properly; here is where TCP or UDP comes into play
5. Session - this is unique and data can not be transferred across different sessions; can be targeted through session hijacking; creates, maintains and closes connections between devices
6. Presentation - this is where encryption happens (HTTPS/TLS/SSL); translates, formats, compresses data. if encryption is tripped, attacker can read traffic (SSL stripping attacks)
7. Application - closest step to the user where interfaces are and protocols here include HTTP, HTTPS, DNS, FTP, SSH, and SMTP; this is the most hacked layer

Packets
- encapsulated in frames
- carry bits of information
- works with IP address
- contain headers

Frames
works with MAC addresses

Post Mail Analogy for Frames & Packets
Frames are the envelope and carry packets (letters) with information. The destination address is a header in which is similar to the delivered address on a letter. The source address is like the return address.

Ports
Act as shipping ports in real life. It is the way data flows through and goes to the right destination
0-65535
Common ports:
HTTP / Port 80: unencrypted web traffic
HTTPS / Port 443: encrypted web traffic
SSH / Port 22: remote terminal access
FTP / Port 21: file transfer
RDP / Port 3389: remote desktop control
SMB / Port 445: file/printer sharing

Port Practice Attempt
The goal of this experiment was to connect to 8.8.8.8 using port 1234. Normally google (8.8.8.8) uses port 443 because it is an encrypted website but this time we want to connect to it using the custom port. 
When doing a browser request one simply adds a :1234 at the end of the URL to connect through that port. In terms of how this affects security, this could potentially deter some port scanners or automated attacks
but this is not a security measure on its own

TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)
SYN -> SYN/ACK -> ACK
establishes a connection between two computers so that delivery of data is secure and reliable
downside is that it is slower

UDP (User Datagram Protocol)
no established connection but faster
used for VoIP, online gaming, streaming videos, and DNS

Purple team thought:
There is always going to be ways around obstacles and but first it’s about identifying how they work and their fundamentals. Kind of similar to the best way to outsmart your enemy is to think like them. 

Next step:
Complete Network fundamentals and start How the Web Works
